All right, so now that you've learned about static methods and you know what the key word static means
in relation to methods, I wanted to go back now and address something that I glossed over earlier,
which was the meaning of the static key word on fields or instance variables of classes.
Earlier, we had an example, and I think I've probably yeah, we've changed it now, but we had an
example where we were creating a couple of static fields on the person class.
I don't remember exactly what they were.
I think maybe it was some other type.
I don't think it was the type person, but let's pretend like it was right.
So we had something like where we were creating a person.
And we had a couple of them, some something like that, OK?
And I didn't explain why we needed to create those static, but it had to do with the fact that we were
referring back to a type in our static method.
OK.
And so maybe now you can understand a little bit better.
What happens is if we do choose to refer to a variable class variable in a static method, then the
variable we are referring to also has to be static because static methods can exist prior to a class
instance being created.
OK, so any class variables that you may be referring to within a static method also have to be static.
So let me just show you a quick example of what I mean here.
Let me delete this little example here and down here in the public static void main method.
Let's say that we want to just print out something like the mathematical constant of PI.
OK, so let's pretend like that's going to be a variable called PI.
OK, three point one four, just like that.
So if we were to define such a variable up here as a regular instance, variable non static.
So we'll make this a mathematical type of double.
We'll call it PI.
Now there's a reason why I'm capitalizing this, which I will explain in just a moment.
Three point one four.
OK.
So here we have this instance variable called PI three point one four.
But down here, this is still red, even though I've got that variable called PI right here.
What?
What's the problem?
So if we hover over this, we get a message saying non static filled pi cannot be referenced from a
static context.
So it's pretty much what I just said.
This is a static method.
It can exist prior to the existence of an object or a class instance.
But non static member variables of a class such as all of these will only exist after an instance of
this person class has actually been created.
OK.
So after the person building has been constructed, if you will?
However, if I make this static.
Like so now this variable will exist without an instance of the person class or an object of type person
being created.
And because of that, I no longer have a red mark here because this static method can now access that
value.
OK, so that's the main thing now.
You may be wondering, OK, so so what is the reason for wanting to create static variables?
Well, there could be a number of reasons this one.
This example that I'm showing here, though, is one of the most typical.
This is what we call a constant, and I'll talk a little bit more about constants in in a future lesson.
But the main idea is that in real life, we have this constant this mathematical constant pi three point
one four.
It will never change.
And so I can define this and I can make it static, because no matter how many instances of the person
class we will create, PI will never change.
Pi should never change.
So we really only need one instance, if you will, of this variable pi by making it static.
I am essentially also saying not only do I want this variable to exist before, during and after the
creation of objects of type person, but I only need one instance of this variable.
And so this one variable PI will be shared, if you will, among all instances of person or even if
you don't have an instance of the person class.
OK.
Hopefully, that will become more clear if this is still not completely clear to you.
The main thing is if you're going to access member variables from a static method, then those variables
have to be static too.
And if you create one, two or five million instances of a class, such as instances of class person,
if you make a member variable static, the all of those instances of that class will share that one
instance of that variable.
This means that if one instance of a class such as person were to change this value, all other instances
of that class would see that change to value.
OK, so that's another way of looking at it.
They don't each get their own copy of this variable.
They just get one copy of this variable to share amongst all of them.
However, the non static member variables here, those each belong to their own instance of the person
class.
OK, so that's another probably good way of looking at it.
All right.
That's all I wanted to share in this lesson.
Just to follow back on what static member variables are, by the way, you'll also learn in the future
lesson that this is not 100 percent the right way to make a so-called constant that is a variable that
should never change.
There's one more key word that you would need here.
You'll learn that in the future.
OK, so I just wanted to point out some of those key differences that you'll learn a little bit more
about in the future lesson where I will talk a little bit more about constants.
All right.
That's going to wrap this up, and I'll see you in the next one.